#summary This page describe how you can contribute to Zirco Browser by translating it to your own language.

Before starting a translation, you must agree that your work will be released under the same license as Zirco, e.g. [http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/gpl.html GPL version 3]. Also do not forget that a software translation is not a one-shot work, and that new translations may be needed after your initial work.

Translations are done is a language-specific XML file. A single translation string look like this :
{{{
<string name="Main.MenuAddBookmark">Add bookmark</string>
}}}

Where the part in the name parameter (here {{{Main.MenuAddBookmark}}}) is the string key, which you must leave unchanged, and the part between {{{<string …>}}} and {{{</string>}}} the translated string.

= Translation steps =
== Download the last reference language file ==

[http://zirco-browser.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/res/values/strings.xml]

Then select “Save as...” in your browser, and save it where you want on your computer.

== Translate ==

Open the file you downloaded with a decent text editor (hint: Windows Notepad is *NOT* a decent text editor). Do not change the default encoding (UTF-8) and the default line breaks (Unix style).

Translate every required strings.

=== Specials cases ===
==== String-arrays ====
Do not translate anything within a {{{<string-array>}}} tag.

==== Apostrophe ====
Apostrophes must be preceded by a “\” character.

Example:
{{{
<string name="Main.VndErrorTitle">Impossible d\'ouvrir l\'url</string>
}}}

==== Formatted strings ====
Some strings may contains dynamic values, filled at runtime by the application. The place where the dynamics values are inserted in the string a represented by a {{{%s}}}, {{{%1$s}}} {{{%2$s}}}, etc. You must include the original {{{%s}}}-type in your translation, at the appropriate place.

Example:
{{{
<string name="Commons.HistoryBookmarksFailedMessage">Error message: %s.</string>
}}}

Will be displayed to the user as {{{Error message: unable to read bookmarks.}}} for instance.

{{{
<string name="HttpAuthenticationDialog.DialogTitle">Sign in to %1$s - %2$s</string>
}}}

When there is several values to dynamically change in a single string, the {{{%s}}} part change to {{{%1$s}}}, {{{%2$s}}}, etc. You may change the order of the {{{%s}}} in your translation, if its make sense in you language, e.g. you can do something like:

{{{
<string name="HttpAuthenticationDialog.DialogTitle">SomeText %2$s AnotherText %1$s</string>
}}}

==== Search URLs ====
Search URLs can be customized by language. For instance, the default search URLs:

{{{
http://www.google.com/m?hl=en&amp;gl=us&amp;client=ms-null&amp;source=android-browser-key&amp;q=%s
http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?search=%s&amp;go=Go
}}}

Are customized in French to:

{{{
http://www.google.com/m?hl=fr&amp;gl=fr&amp;client=ms-null&amp;source=android-browser-key&amp;q=%s
http://fr.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?search=%s&amp;go=Go
}}}

So Google search result and Wikipedia results will use french.

==== Misc. ====
  * Use {{{&#8230;}}} instead of writing three points ({{{...}}})
  * Never change
{{{
<string name="DATE_FORMAT_ISO8601">yyyy-MM-dd\'T\'HH:mm:ss.SSS</string>
}}}

== Submit your translation ==

Either send me an e-mail, with your modified file and the language you translated, or open an [http://code.google.com/p/zirco-browser/issues/list issue] and post your file there.